README.md, before:

# MCP Tools

[Read my Blog Post about MCP Tools](https://blog.fka.dev/blog/2025-03-26-introducing-mcp-tools-cli/)

A command-line interface for interacting with MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers using both stdio and HTTP transport.

## Overview

```bash
mcp shell npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

This will open a shell as following:

![MCP Tools Screenshot](.github/resources/screenshot.png)

## Installation

### Using Homebrew

```bash
brew tap f/mcptools
brew install mcp
```

### From Source

```bash
go install github.com/f/mcptools/cmd/mcptools@latest
```

## Usage

```
MCP is a command line interface for interacting with MCP servers.
It allows you to discover and call tools, list resources, and interact with MCP-compatible services.

Usage:
  mcp [command]

Available Commands:
  call           Call a tool, resource, or prompt on the MCP server
  help           Help about any command
  prompts        List available prompts on the MCP server
  resources      List available resources on the MCP server
  shell          Start an interactive shell for MCP commands
  tools          List available tools on the MCP server
  version        Print the version information

Flags:
  -f, --format string   Output format (table, json, pretty) (default "table")
  -h, --help            Help for mcp
  -H, --http            Use HTTP transport instead of stdio
  -p, --params string   JSON string of parameters to pass to the tool (default "{}")
  -s, --server string   MCP server URL (when using HTTP transport) (default "http://localhost:8080")
```

## Transport Options

MCP supports two transport methods for communicating with MCP servers:

### Stdio Transport (Default)

Uses stdin/stdout to communicate with an MCP server via JSON-RPC 2.0. This is useful for command-line tools that implement the MCP protocol.

```bash
mcp tools npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

### HTTP Transport

Uses HTTP protocol to communicate with an MCP server. Use the `--http` flag for HTTP transport.

```bash
mcp --http tools --server "http://mcp.example.com:8080"
```

## Output Formats

MCP supports three output formats:

### Table Format (Default)

Displays the output in a table-like view for better readability.

```bash
mcp tools npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

### JSON Format

Displays the output as compact JSON.

```bash
mcp tools --format json npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

### Pretty Format

Displays the output as indented JSON.

```bash
mcp tools --format pretty npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

## Commands

### List Available Tools

```bash
# Using stdio transport (default)
mcp tools npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http tools
```

### List Available Resources

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp resources npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http resources
```

### List Available Prompts

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp prompts npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http prompts
```

### Call a Tool

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp call read_file --params '{"path": "/path/to/file"}' npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http call read_file --params '{"path": "/path/to/file"}'
```

### Call a Resource

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp call resource:my-resource npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http call resource:my-resource
```

### Call a Prompt

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp call prompt:my-prompt npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http call prompt:my-prompt
```

### Interactive Shell Mode

Start an interactive shell for executing multiple MCP commands:

```bash
mcp shell npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

This opens an interactive shell where you can run MCP commands:

```
mcp > connected to MCP server over stdio
mcp > Type '/h' for help or '/q' to quit
mcp > tools
NAME        DESCRIPTION
----        -----------
read_file   Reads a file from the filesystem
...

mcp > call read_file --params '{"path": "README.md"}'
...content of README.md...

# Direct tool calling is supported
mcp > read_file {"path": "README.md"}
...content of README.md...

mcp > /h
MCP Shell Commands:
  tools                      List available tools
  resources                  List available resources
  prompts                    List available prompts
  call <entity> [--params '{...}']  Call a tool, resource, or prompt
  format [json|pretty|table] Get or set output format
Special Commands:
  /h, /help                  Show this help
  /q, /quit, exit            Exit the shell

mcp > /q
Exiting MCP shell
```

## Examples

List tools from a filesystem server:

```bash
mcp tools npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

Call the read_file tool with pretty JSON output:

```bash
mcp call read_file --params '{"path": "README.md"}' --format pretty npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

Using HTTP transport with a remote server:

```bash
mcp --http --server "http://mcp.example.com:8080" tools
```

Using the interactive shell mode:

```bash
mcp shell npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

update readme for contributing md

README.md, after:

# MCP Tools

[Read my Blog Post about MCP Tools](https://blog.fka.dev/blog/2025-03-26-introducing-mcp-tools-cli/)

A command-line interface for interacting with MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers using both stdio and HTTP transport.

## Overview

```bash
mcp shell npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

This will open a shell as following:

![MCP Tools Screenshot](.github/resources/screenshot.png)

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to submit pull requests, report issues, and contribute to the project.

## Installation

### Using Homebrew

```bash
brew tap f/mcptools
brew install mcp
```

### From Source

```bash
go install github.com/f/mcptools/cmd/mcptools@latest
```

## Usage

```
MCP is a command line interface for interacting with MCP servers.
It allows you to discover and call tools, list resources, and interact with MCP-compatible services.

Usage:
  mcp [command]

Available Commands:
  call           Call a tool, resource, or prompt on the MCP server
  help           Help about any command
  prompts        List available prompts on the MCP server
  resources      List available resources on the MCP server
  shell          Start an interactive shell for MCP commands
  tools          List available tools on the MCP server
  version        Print the version information

Flags:
  -f, --format string   Output format (table, json, pretty) (default "table")
  -h, --help            Help for mcp
  -H, --http            Use HTTP transport instead of stdio
  -p, --params string   JSON string of parameters to pass to the tool (default "{}")
  -s, --server string   MCP server URL (when using HTTP transport) (default "http://localhost:8080")
```

## Transport Options

MCP supports two transport methods for communicating with MCP servers:

### Stdio Transport (Default)

Uses stdin/stdout to communicate with an MCP server via JSON-RPC 2.0. This is useful for command-line tools that implement the MCP protocol.

```bash
mcp tools npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

### HTTP Transport

Uses HTTP protocol to communicate with an MCP server. Use the `--http` flag for HTTP transport.

```bash
mcp --http tools --server "http://mcp.example.com:8080"
```

## Output Formats

MCP supports three output formats:

### Table Format (Default)

Displays the output in a table-like view for better readability.

```bash
mcp tools npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

### JSON Format

Displays the output as compact JSON.

```bash
mcp tools --format json npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

### Pretty Format

Displays the output as indented JSON.

```bash
mcp tools --format pretty npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

## Commands

### List Available Tools

```bash
# Using stdio transport (default)
mcp tools npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http tools
```

### List Available Resources

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp resources npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http resources
```

### List Available Prompts

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp prompts npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http prompts
```

### Call a Tool

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp call read_file --params '{"path": "/path/to/file"}' npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http call read_file --params '{"path": "/path/to/file"}'
```

### Call a Resource

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp call resource:my-resource npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http call resource:my-resource
```

### Call a Prompt

```bash
# Using stdio transport
mcp call prompt:my-prompt npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code

# Using HTTP transport
mcp --http call prompt:my-prompt
```

### Interactive Shell Mode

Start an interactive shell for executing multiple MCP commands:

```bash
mcp shell npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

This opens an interactive shell where you can run MCP commands:

```
mcp > connected to MCP server over stdio
mcp > Type '/h' for help or '/q' to quit
mcp > tools
NAME        DESCRIPTION
----        -----------
read_file   Reads a file from the filesystem
...

mcp > call read_file --params '{"path": "README.md"}'
...content of README.md...

# Direct tool calling is supported
mcp > read_file {"path": "README.md"}
...content of README.md...

mcp > /h
MCP Shell Commands:
  tools                      List available tools
  resources                  List available resources
  prompts                    List available prompts
  call <entity> [--params '{...}']  Call a tool, resource, or prompt
  format [json|pretty|table] Get or set output format
Special Commands:
  /h, /help                  Show this help
  /q, /quit, exit            Exit the shell

mcp > /q
Exiting MCP shell
```

## Examples

List tools from a filesystem server:

```bash
mcp tools npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

Call the read_file tool with pretty JSON output:

```bash
mcp call read_file --params '{"path": "README.md"}' --format pretty npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

Using HTTP transport with a remote server:

```bash
mcp --http --server "http://mcp.example.com:8080" tools
```

Using the interactive shell mode:

```bash
mcp shell npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem ~/Code
```

## License

MIT
